how to plant a bare root tree Planting bare root trees is 
a fun and economical way to have lush green trees on your property 
without the higher cost of purchasing established trees. Although 
it is not difficult to do, it is important to keep in mind some 
specific guidelines in order maximize your chances for success. By 
following these easy steps, you can turn your brown thumb into a
green thumb in no time. Carefully unpack the bare root tree from the container 
or material it came in. Be careful not to damage any of the roots during the unpacking process. If you do damage a few, 
nip them off with a pair of sterilized pruners.
Set the tree into a bucket filled with water.  Allow the tree to soak for 4-6 hours prior to planting. This will allow the roots of the tree to soak up 
water and not dry out during the initial shock of planting.  
Dig a hole slightly larger than the diameter and depth of the tree and soil width.
For example, if the tree roots and soil are 50 centimeter (19.7 in) wide, dig a hole 60 centimeter (23.6 in) wide to allow 
for maximum root spread. Check to be sure there are no large weed roots in the 
hole you have dug. If these are left there, they will compete with the new tree and might restrict its growth. Add your organic material to the hold and mix well. This 
will get your young tree off to a good start. Plant the tree so that where the 
roots meet the base of the tree. This is known as the \"root collar\" and it should be level with the ground. Placing dirt around the tree trunk above the root ball will cause the tree to
grow in a way that will make it likely to fall over prematurely.
Shovel the remaining dirt from the container. Add more if necessary into the hole, taking care
to pack the soil firmly around the tree. Build a water basin around the outside of the 
tree. Give the tree plenty of water. Add a mulch area of a metre /a yard wide and 5 centimeter (2.0 in) deep around the tree base.
Be sure not to let the mulch touch the tree itself. Leave an area approximately 10–20 centimeter (3.9–7.9 in) inches around the trunk of the tree. It allows the tree to breath and a 
space to check the base for any possible problems or insect damage.